
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, the experiment captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See 'features_info.txt' for more details. 

In the data frame "final_data" there are 82 variables. 
The first variable is the "subjectId" for the subject which participated in the experiment. There are 30 subjects
The second variable is one of the activity out of six -(WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING)
Last column, datatype, is an identification whether the subject was a test subject or train subject
The other 79 columns are the variables with readings pertaining to mean or standard deviation pertaining to total acceleration, body acceleration and gyro in three planes - X,Y and Z.The original variable names have been retained.
In the tidy data file "Samsung_mean_data_MSP.txt", the "datatype" is dropped. The variable names are also the same and the reading is a mean subject and activity wise.
The variables preficed with t are a measurement in time domain in seconds and those prefixed with f are in Hz, a fourier trnasform in frequenct domain.